[l] Buzzfeed (ja, Buzzfeed!) hat eine lesenswerte Reportage ueber ISDS. ISDS ist das Investorenschutz-System, bei uns hauptsaechlich im TTIP-Kontext als "Schiedsgerichte" bekannt. ISDS gibt es aber schon laenger, und es performt ungefaehr so gut, wie man sich das denken wuerde:The series starts today with perhaps the least known and most jarring revelation: Companies and executives accused or even convicted of crimes have escaped punishment by turning to this special forum. Based on exclusive reporting from the Middle East, Central America, and Asia, BuzzFeed News has found the following:A Dubai real estate mogul and former business partner of Donald Trump was sentenced to prison for collaborating on a deal that would swindle the Egyptian people out of millions of dollars — but then he turned to ISDS and got his prison sentence wiped away.In El Salvador, a court found that a factory had poisoned a village — including dozens of children — with lead, failing for years to take government-ordered steps to prevent the toxic metal from seeping out. But the factory owners’ lawyers used ISDS to help the company dodge a criminal conviction and the responsibility for cleaning up the area and providing needed medical care.Two financiers convicted of embezzling more than $300 million from an Indonesian bank used an ISDS finding to fend off Interpol, shield their assets, and effectively nullify their punishment.Oh und der eine Fuersprecher, den sie da gefunden haben, der das System verteidigen will, welches Beispiel bringt der? Ein Beispiel dafuer, wohlgemerkt, dass ISDS "Gerechtigkeit" herbeigefuehrt habe?Na?Kommt ihr NIE drauf!As proof that ISDS delivers justice, Brower pointed to a wave of nationalizations by the Venezuelan government, many while Hugo Chávez was in charge, that led to “huge awards against them for uncompensated expropriation.”Das ist naemlich Gerechtigkeit, muesst ihr wissen. Eine Regierung, die was gegen die Ausbeutung ihres Volkes durch auslaendische "Investoren" und ungerechte Knebelvertraege von korrupten Vorgaengerregimes tun will, kriegt Milliardenstrafen reingedrueckt. Gerechtigkeit, ick hoer dir trapsen!Reicht euch noch nicht? Da ist noch mehr!A few of their ideas: Sue Libya for failing to protect an oil facility during a civil war. Sue Spain for reducing solar energy incentives as a severe recession forced the government to make budget cuts. Sue India for allowing a generic drug company to make a cheaper version of a cancer drug.
